The Polkadot BizDev Bible (#3)
shawntabrizi/awesome-polkadot: bizdevbible.md

# The Polkadot BizDev Bible

The Pros (and Cons) of building on Polkadot for each market audience.

## The Polkadot Platform

Polkadot is composed of two platforms: the Polkadot Cloud and the Polkadot Hub.

These platforms have little overlap in the kinds of users they should appeal to, and the ones we should attract.

### Polkadot Cloud

The Polkadot Cloud is targeted toward large scale Web3 applications which plan to drive millions of transactions.

One Core on the Polkadot Cloud can execute 1,500 transactions per second, which is approximately 4 billion transactions per month. We have seen applications easily execute nearly 10 million transactions in a month without an issue.

The Polkadot Cloud will be the best place to onboard:

> - Existing businesses who want to migrate existing large volumes of traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Businesses that want to migrate already existing large volumes of traffic.
```

- Custom Web3 solutions, which gain access to low level building primitives.
	- Privacy Chains
		- Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs)
		- Zero-Knowledge Systems
	- Large State Chains

> 		- Large File Storage (ipfs, filecoin, large individual items)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		- Large File Storage (IPFS, Filecoin, large individual files)
```

		- Large State Trees (billions of items)
	- Social Networks
		- Feeless transactions
		- Subsidized operations and usage
		- Businesses looking to abstract the blockchain from their users.
	- Low Latency Applications
		- Gaming
	- MEV Resistance / Control Over Transaction Ordering
		- Specific kinds of DeFi
	- etc..

The Polkadot Cloud will not be the best place for:

> - New businesses and trying to grow a new customer base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New businesses that are still trying to create a customer base.
```

> - New developers as the minimum bar for entry is quite high relatively speaking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New developers, as the minimum bar for entry is, relatively speaking, quite high.
```

- End-users, as the Polkadot Cloud does not offer many services which appeal to this audience.

> These kinds of users should to the Polkadot Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These kinds of users will instead be directed to the Polkadot Hub.
```

The Polkadot Hub uses a next-generation smart contract platform that is backwards compatible with Solidity smart contracts.

The Polkadot Hub also has Polkadot native features such as:
- Staking
- Governance
- Treasury
- Stablecoins
- etc...

These should appeal to non-developer audiences in addition to developers passionate about the Web3 space.

The Polkadot Hub will be the best place to onboard:
- Low Time Investment Builders
	- New Developers
	- Tinkerers
	- Explorers (i.e. experts from other ecosystems)
- Short-Term Projects
	- Hackathons
	- Fundraising
	- Executing Legal Contracts
- Low Overhead / Small Teams
	- Meme coins
	- Whitepaper deployment
- Passionate Users
	- Active Polkadot Community
	- Active Users of Polkadot Hub Applications
	- Stablecoin Users
- Polkadot Native Extensions
	- Account Abstractions
	- DAOs
	- Staking Pools

The Polkadot Hub will not be the best place for:
- Doing things at large scale
	- Large volume of traffic
		- Potential issues with transaction inclusion
		- Spikes in fees
	- Large volume of data
		- Expensive for the business and/or the end users
- Those who need more control over their application

> 	- See Polkadot Cloud for customizability options.

Reviewer: Should be changed as it's redundant with the line below, or deleted, since the cloud was already covered above.

> These kinds of users should go to the Polkadot Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These kinds of users should go to the Polkadot Cloud, which enables customizability and a solid foundation for scaling businesses.
```

## Audiences

TODO

### Existing Web2 Businesses

> 

Reviewer: Quick outline points:
- The only blockchain that can actually scale to support real businesses and applications
- Focus on your business, let Polkadot provide infra/explorers/interop/upgrades
- Something about abstraction so their customers don't need to deal with all of the technicalities of blockchains

Author: I think i would want first some feedback these audiences are right and capture the groups we want to think about.

The comments here are good, but would be wasted if the audience would expand or retract in scope, or change altogether.

Author: So starting from a bank page, what are the audiences you think about?

Reviewer: I'd say this one should be narrowed to Existing Web2 Businesses that actually need/benefit from blockchain for some reason. That may seem obvious but I think it's important to specify.

There should be a government audience too. Maybe DAOs? We could see some of them migrate to the Hub in the future.

From my not-dev background, startup founder and tinkerer seem fairly similar, or at least, tinkerers don't really seem like BD targets to me.

Reviewer 2: The part about existing web2 businesses is interesting. This is how I see it:
The Polkadot Cloud enables services/applications that Web2 businesses can use to solve their problems. For example, [Heathrow airport uses the services provided by the Aventus parachain](https://www.aventus.io/success-stories/aventus-overhauls-operational-efficiency-of-airline-cargo-with-blockchain-at-heathrow-airport) to solve a very specific problem. Another example is [Deloitte using KILT for reusable KYC credentials](https://medium.com/kilt-protocol/deloitte-kyc-credentials-are-live-b7df4e86a7f0). These are just two examples, there are more.

### Successful Web3 Businesses

> 

Reviewer: Quick outline points:
- Practically infinite scaling
- Focus on your business, let Polkadot provide infra/explorers/interop/upgrades
- Easily migrate users, keep the same address format if you want

### Startup Founder

### Tinkerer

## Polkadot Pitches

There are many pitches which can be used to sell Polkadot to a business.

### Less to Worry About

> Audience: This pitch is targeted towards Web3 builders who compare Polkadot to other fragmented solutions like what is found on Ethereum. (separate settlement, execution, and data availability)

The Polkadot Cloud is an all-in-one solution for deploying Web3 applications.

You get:

- Shared Security
- Elastic Scaling
- Battle Tested Rollup SDK
	- Used by 40+ rollups, and a number of L1 chains
- Performant Rollups
	- High Speed
	- Low Costs
	- Fast Finality
- Native Interoperability
- Trustless Bridges
- Predictable Fees
	- Monthly Subscriptions / Fixed Renewal
	- Market Purchases up to 1 month in advance
- Data Availability

This means **you have less to worry about**!

Focus on your business, let us do the rest.

### Keep Your Profits

> > Audience: This pitch is targeted toward Web2 businesses whom offer products and services to a large user base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Audience: This pitch is targeted towards Web2 businesses who offer products and services to a large user base.
```

Compared to traditional Web2 systems, Web3 systems allows you to remove middlemen between you and your customers.

Whether it be:

- Payments
- Ownership
- Coordination
- Interoperability

Web3 applications allow you to build ecosystems which are native to your application.

> Because Polkadot keeps the cost of deploying, using, and scaling Web3 applications low, you get to **keep your profits** generated by your community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Polkadot keeps the cost of deploying, using, and scaling Web3 applications low, you get to **keep your profits**.
```

### Full Control

> > Audience: This pitch is targeted toward engineering experts who want to innovate in Web3 without having to rebuild or establish everything from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Audience: This pitch is targeted towards engineering experts who want to innovate in Web3 without having to rebuild or establish everything from scratch.
```

The Polkadot Cloud is the most flexible Web3 platform for applications and services.

It makes minimal assumption about what you deploy, affording you maximum flexibility.

With the modular Polkadot Rollup SDK, you can literally have **full control** of your application.

- Pay fees with ANY token.
- Eliminate user fees all together!

> - Direct control over transaction ordering and priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have direct control over transaction ordering and priority.
```

- Write your state transition function in any programming language.
- and more...

Build on the shoulder of giants, without compromising your vision.

### Resilience at Every Layer

> > Audience: This pitch is targeted toward someone who is Web3 focused. Someone who believes in the underlying mission of what Bitcoin and Ethereum have been bringing to the world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Audience: This pitch is targeted towards someone who is Web3 focused. Someone who believes in the underlying mission of what Bitcoin and Ethereum have been bringing to the world.
```

- Decentralized Sequencers
- Scalable Validity Proofs
- Horizontal Scaling / Parallelization / Sharding
- etc...

Polkadot does not compromise Web3 principles for vanity metrics or other bullshit.

Polkadot is designed to solve real problems, and deliver on a world with less trust and more truth.

### Launchpad Ready In: 3, 2, 1...

> Audience: This pitch is targeted towards "degens" of the crypto community, who are looking for places to find the newest and hottest products in the space.

Polkadot is proud to announce the Polkadot Hub.

The Polkadot Hub is a new L1 blockchain running on the Polkadot Cloud, and a launchpad for builders to tap into over 6 billion dollars in tokens across the Polkadot ecosystem.

The Polkadot Hub will be Ethereum compatible, meaning you can deploy your favorite Solidity smart contracts directly to the Polkadot ecosystem.

The Polkadot Hub has native access to stable coins like USDC and USDT, as well as all of the tokens from the Polkadot ecosystem. The Polkadot Hub also has trustless bridges to Ethereum and other top blockchain ecosystems, meaning that you have worry-free access to basically any token within the crypto market.

> On the Polkadot Hub, you can pay fees with any of these tokens. You can even hold stablecoins without needing any other token on your account!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Polkadot Hub, you can pay transaction fees with any of these tokens, meaning you can even hold and use stablecoins without needing any other token!
```

The Polkadot Hub is a brand new, untapped resource for explosive product growth by tapping into one of the largest developer communities in the blockchain ecosystem.

> With millions of users at your fingertips, there is no better place to launch than the Polkadot Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With millions of users at your fingertips, there is no better place to launch than the Polkadot Hub. You can have your **launchpad ready In: 3, 2, 1...**
```

## Polkadot Fact Sheet

When presenting Polkadot, you may need to reference specific facts. You should find those here.

### History

- Founders
	- [Gav Wood](https://twitter.com/gavofyork)
	- [Rob Habermeier](https://twitter.com/rphmeier)

- Milestones
	- Polkadot Paper: October 2016
	- ICO: October 2017
	- Polkadot Cloud - Genesis: May 2020
	- Polkadot Cloud - Milestone I (Parachains): November 2021
	- First Cloud Services: December 2021
	- Gray Paper: April 2024
	- Polkadot Cloud - Milestone II (Elastic): October 2024
	- Polkadot Hub: TBD
	- Polkadot Cloud - Milestone III (JAM): TBD

### Technical Specifications

- Block Time
	- The Polkadot Cloud executes at 6 seconds per block

> 	- Services on the Polkadot Cloud can execute up to 0.5 seconds per block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- Services on the Polkadot Cloud can reach speeds of up to 0.5 seconds per block
```

- Finality

> 	- Finality can be as low as 12 seconds (2x 6 second blocks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- Finality can be as low as 12 seconds (2x 6 second blocks) and averages 30 seconds
```

Author: i prefer the "low medium high" structure of the bullets.

> 	- On average, is around 30 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

	- 99% percentile is probably around 60 seconds (made up numbers, need data)
- Data Availability
	- 10 MB per core per block
	- Around 150 MB/s for 100 cores, and 6 second blocks

### Benchmarks

- Max total TPS achieved on Polkadot Cloud: ??
- Max TPS achieved on Cloud Service: 1,500 TPS
- Max cores utilized: 50

### Ecosystem Metrics

- Nakamoto Coefficient: 120
	- Approximately 1/3 the validator size (400)
	- Highest among all peers
- Carbon Footprint: 71 TCO₂E / Year
	- Lowest among all peers
- Rollups: 40+
- External Polkadot SDK usage:
	- Avail (previously Polygon)

> 	- Cardano Midnight

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- Cardano Midnight
	- Bittensor
```

# The Polkadot BizDev Bible

> The Pros (and Cons) of building on Polkadot for each market audience.

Author: ```suggestion
The Pros (and Cons) of building on Polkadot for each market audience.

This document is not complete. Please help me finish it by opening a PR! :)
```

## The Polkadot Platform

> Polkadot is composed of two platforms: the Polkadot Cloud and the Polkadot Hub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Polkadot platform has two core components: the Polkadot Cloud and the Polkadot Hub.
```

Author: i might say "products" instead of components. need to think on these kinds of details.

Reviewer 2: "products" is also good.

These platforms have little overlap in the kinds of users they should appeal to, and the ones we should attract.

### Polkadot Cloud

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Polkadot Cloud is where you build scalable, resilient, and high-performance Web3 applications and services. Designed for diverse use cases, it also enables you to create applications that deliver robust solutions for Web2 businesses and governments. 

```

> The Polkadot Cloud is targeted toward large scale Web3 applications which plan to drive millions of transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the Polkadot Cloud, you can:
- Launch applications with elastic scalability, adapting to demand without sacrificing performance.
- Launch rollup chains (Layer 1 chains), secured by Polkadot’s Rollup Service or other Polkadot-native cloud services.
- Access essential services like data availability and settlement, which are needed for building advanced and decentralized applications.
- Deploy applications that offer specific solutions for Web2 enterprises and governments, addressing specific needs. 
- Much more. 

```

	- Large volume of data
		- Expensive for the business and/or the end users
- Those who need more control over their application
	- See Polkadot Cloud for customizability options.

These kinds of users should go to the Polkadot Cloud.

## Audiences

TODO

### Existing Web2 Businesses

### Successful Web3 Businesses

### Startup Founder

### Tinkerer

## Polkadot Pitches

There are many pitches which can be used to sell Polkadot to a business.

### Less to Worry About

> Audience: This pitch is targeted towards Web3 builders who compare Polkadot to other fragmented solutions like what is found on Ethereum. (separate settlement, execution, and data availability)

The Polkadot Cloud is an all-in-one solution for deploying Web3 applications.

You get:

- Shared Security
- Elastic Scaling
- Battle Tested Rollup SDK
	- Used by 40+ rollups, and a number of L1 chains
- Performant Rollups
	- High Speed
	- Low Costs
	- Fast Finality
- Native Interoperability
- Trustless Bridges
- Predictable Fees
	- Monthly Subscriptions / Fixed Renewal
	- Market Purchases up to 1 month in advance
- Data Availability

This means **you have less to worry about**!

Focus on your business, let us do the rest.

> ### Keep Your Profits

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Solutions for your business
```

Author: Im trying to sell hard on these pitches. i think "solutions for your business" isn't the vibe

Reviewer 2: Good point. Then "Keep Your Profits" is better.

> Audience: This pitch is targeted towards Web2 businesses who offer products and services to a large user base.

> Compared to traditional Web2 systems, Web3 systems allows you to remove middlemen between you and your customers.
> 
> Whether it be:
> 
> - Payments
> - Ownership
> - Coordination
> - Interoperability
> 
> Web3 applications allow you to build ecosystems which are native to your application.
> 
> Because Polkadot keeps the cost of deploying, using, and scaling Web3 applications low, you get to **keep your profits**.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Polkadot Cloud offers a range of unique applications that provide tailored solutions for Web2 businesses, addressing specific challenges with their distinct features.

We already have some examples:
- [Heathrow airport uses the services provided by the Aventus parachain](https://www.aventus.io/success-stories/aventus-overhauls-operational-efficiency-of-airline-cargo-with-blockchain-at-heathrow-airport)

- [Deloitte using KILT for reusable KYC credentials](https://medium.com/kilt-protocol/deloitte-kyc-credentials-are-live-b7df4e86a7f0).

- Etc.

These solutions can help businesses improve efficiency, increase revenue, and/or lower operational costs.  

```

Author: I think you are proposing a new pitch, not an edit of my pitch. Happy to review a brand new pitch to be added, but this change isn't something i agree with in terms of what I wrote and what you wrote being equivalent in meaning.

Reviewer 2: Got it. Makes sense.
